controller/README.md, before:

# Ventilator controller software

Here resides the code for the ventilator controller.

## Rationale and structure

The ventilator actuators must be driven by control loops ensuring continuous
breathing according to doctor-provided parameters, while also ensuring
no harm is done to the patient.

Controller code is separated from the user interface code. This makes the code base
smaller, easier to maintain, and lessens the risk of unexpected behavior.

The controller shares the [common communications code](../common) with the GUI.
The part of the code specific to the controller resides here.

Most of the substantive code is in the [lib](lib) directory, because
this is required by [platformio](https://platformio.org/) to unit test that code.

## Development toolchain

The target platform for this code is the STM32 processor.
**#TODO: be more specific**

We use [platformio](https://platformio.org/) for building the controller code.
Platformio has a CLI and an IDE. You'll need the platformio CLI in order to build
from the command-line, even if you also install the IDE.

Instructions for installing:
 * [CLI](https://docs.platformio.org/en/latest/core/installation.html#super-quick-mac-linux)
 * [IDE](https://docs.platformio.org/en/latest/integration/ide/vscode.html#installation)

Here's a [video introduction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EIkGTwLOD7o) to platformio.

PlatformIO works on Windows as well.
You'll need to install [Atom](https://atom.io/),
[Clang+LLVM](https://releases.llvm.org/download.html),
and [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/windows/).
(Note: you may be asked to install Python 2.7, but PlatformIO works with Python 3.5+ as well, ostensibly.)

## Building and testing

After installing platformio, you should be able to build and test as follows.

```
$ ./test.sh
# This will run a few commands, such as "platformio run" and
# "platformio test -e native".
```

This is the same script that runs on our continuous integration server (Travis CI).
Run it frequently during development to catch errors/style violations early.

Sometimes PlatformIO can get into a bad state -
e.g. if things don't build for you in `master`, try:

```
$ rm -rf .pio/
```

## Running on the controller

Plug in the STM32 to your machine, then ask platformio to list all devices connected. 
You should see a USB serial port corresponding to your device.

```
$ pio device list
/dev/cu.usbserial-14220
-----------------------
Hardware ID: USB VID:PID=1A86:7523 LOCATION=20-2.2
Description: USB2.0-Serial
```

Now you can build and upload to the device:

```
$ pio run -t upload
```

If you get the following error, it means platformio was unable to find a connected device.

```
# This means pio couldn't find a device to upload to.  Check that it's connected?
Error: Please specify `upload_port` for environment or use global `--upload-port` option.
```

Alternatively, you can upload the firmware.elf and firmware.bin files to the controller
mounted USB storage device.

OK, but how do you know that this is *doing* anything? 
You'd need to decode messages off the serial bus.
As of 2020-04-25 this is a work in progress;
see e.g. https://github.com/RespiraWorks/VentilatorSoftware/commit/69ae546cbfaf76a98f0ae169581c22903381a4b2
Ask Miceuz@ if you want to help build this.

Commit message:

more utils docs and controller docs more truthy

controller/README.md, after:

# Ventilator controller software

Here resides the code for the ventilator controller.

## Rationale and structure

The ventilator actuators must be driven by control loops ensuring continuous
breathing according to doctor-provided parameters, while also ensuring
no harm is done to the patient.

Controller code is separated from the user interface code. This makes the code base
smaller, easier to maintain, and lessens the risk of unexpected behavior.

The controller shares the [common communications code](../common) with the GUI.
The part of the code specific to the controller resides here.

Most of the substantive code is in the [lib](lib) directory, because
this is required by [platformio](https://platformio.org/) to unit test that code.

The equivalent of a "make file" which governs which targets platformio builds
and how is the [../platfomio.ini](../platformio.ini) file.

## Development toolchain

The target platform for this code is the STM32 processor.
**#TODO: be more specific**

We use [platformio](https://platformio.org/) for building the controller code.
Platformio has a CLI and an IDE. You'll need the platformio CLI in order to build
from the command-line, even if you also install the IDE.

Instructions for installing:
 * [CLI](https://docs.platformio.org/en/latest/core/installation.html#super-quick-mac-linux)
 * [IDE](https://docs.platformio.org/en/latest/integration/ide/vscode.html#installation)

Here's a [video introduction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EIkGTwLOD7o) to platformio.

PlatformIO works on Windows as well.
You'll need to install [Atom](https://atom.io/),
[Clang+LLVM](https://releases.llvm.org/download.html),
and [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/windows/).
(Note: you may be asked to install Python 2.7, but PlatformIO works with Python 3.5+ as well, ostensibly.)

## Building and testing

**All shell scripts should be run in the root directory of this repo
(same as where `platformnio.ini` lives).**

After installing platformio, you should be able to build and test as follows.

```
$ ./test.sh
# This will run a few commands, such as "platformio run" and
# "platformio test -e native".
```

This is the same script that runs on our continuous integration server (Travis CI).
Run it frequently during development to catch errors/style violations early.

Sometimes PlatformIO can get into a bad state -
e.g. if things don't build for you in `master`, try:


```
$ rm -rf .pio/
```

## Running on the controller

Plug in the STM32 to your machine, then ask platformio to list all devices connected.
You should see a USB serial port corresponding to your device.

```
$ pio device list
/dev/cu.usbserial-14220
-----------------------
Hardware ID: USB VID:PID=1A86:7523 LOCATION=20-2.2
Description: USB2.0-Serial
```

Now you can build and upload to the device:

```
$ pio run -t upload
```

If you get the following error, it means platformio was unable to find a connected device.

```
# This means pio couldn't find a device to upload to.  Check that it's connected?
Error: Please specify `upload_port` for environment or use global `--upload-port` option.
```

Alternatively, you can upload the firmware.elf and firmware.bin files to the controller
mounted as a USB storage device.

## Testing with hardware

There are some basic integration tests in the [../utils](../utils) directory.
